frankensteined the lectures (#15)
Ada-Developers-Academy/ada-react-curriculum: 02-react-week-1/intro-to-state.md

```javascript
// components/Student.js

//Our cute functional components that we know and love.
const Student = (props) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{props.fullName}</h3>
      <p>{props.email}</p>
    </div>
  );
};
```

These components are displaying our data right now, but they aren't able to update or adjust that data! Because there's no way to update the data given to them, they can be called "stateless components". But what if we wanted a straightforward way to track state in a component? What existing tool combines the behavior of functions with the storage ability of variables? That's right! Classes!

Let's take a quick look at what the functional component above would look like if it was class-based instead:

```javascript
// components/Student.js
import React from 'react';

class Student extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props); //props is passed in to the constructor of the component...
    this.state = {
      fullname: this.props.fullname,
    }
  }
  
  //It's okay to not understand what's going on here yet. 

>   //Long story short, I can find out the contents of my <input> 
>   //and send them back to the component's state!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  //Long story short, I can get the current value of the component's state, invert it,
  //and send that back to the component's state.
```

  onNameChange = () => {
    this.setState({fullname: event.target.value})
  }

  render() {

    //...and when we want to access that data, we can use `this`
    return (
      <div>
        <h3>{this.state.fullname}</h3>
        <p>{this.props.email}</p>
        Change the Name: <input onChange={this.onNameChange}></input>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

export default Student;
```

And if you want to play around with this live, [check out this codepen.](https://codepen.io/dhelmgren/pen/dypRybV) Don't worry about how the pieces we haven't talked about yet work, just try it out and confirm that we can change the name of the student.

> 

Reviewer: The codepen example will need to be updated with the new version of the code (present button rather than name example)

Reviewer 2: I'll get started on that.

Also, take a look see in that constructor! We are using a special variable that `React.Component` gives us called `state`. Now, I know we just spent a long time saying that _any data_ that can change over time can be considered state. **That's still true!** React, however, is going to use this special object called `state` to know when it has to be reloaded. 

### !callout-info

## So Why Didn't We Learn Class Components Earlier?
React recently introduced a tool to the framework called 'hooks', which we'll be talking about soon. The introduction of hooks, in our opinion, make class components by in large _unnecessary_.  With hooks most applications can be written exclusively with functional components.  There are a few [specialized cases](https://reactjs.org/docs/error-boundaries.html) which require class components, but these scenarios are few and far between and may be replaced hook-based solutions at a later date.

### !end-callout

"Okay okay," I hear you saying, "But how are those fields getting changed!?"

> Without getting to into the weeds, there is a function call called `setState` -which we call on line 11 in the codepen- that belongs to `React.Component`. It takes an **object that updates all the fields of your state to their new values** as its parameter, and checks it against the current `state` object. If there are new or updated fields in that object, React updates the DOM to reflect those changes. If not, React just gives the component a high-five and lets them on their merry way.

Reviewer: Line # may require edit after update

  return (
    <div>
      <h3>{props.fullName}</h3>
      <ul>
        <li>Class: C14</li>
        <li>Birthday: {props.birthday}</li>
        <li>Email: {props.email}</li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  );
};
```

These components are displaying our data right now, but they aren't able to update or adjust that data! Because there's no way to update the data given to them, they can be called "stateless components". But what if we wanted a straightforward way to track state in a component? What existing tool combines the behavior of functions with the storage ability of variables? That's right! Classes!

Let's take a quick look at what the functional component above would look like if it was class-based instead:

```javascript
// components/Student.js
import React from 'react';

class Student extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props); //props is passed in to the constructor of the component...
    this.state = {
      present: false,
    }
  }
  
  //It's okay to not understand what's going on here yet. 
  //Long story short, I can get the current value of the component's state, invert it,
  //and send that back to the component's state.

>   onSetPresent = () => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  updatePresent = () => {
```

    this.setState({present: !this.state.present})
  }

  render() {

    //...and when we want to access that data, we can use `this`
    return (
<div>
      <h3>{this.props.fullName}</h3>
      <ul>
          <li>Class: C14</li>
          <li>Birthday: {this.props.birthday}</li>
          <li>Email: {this.props.email}</li>
      </ul>

>       // We will dig into what's going on in this line in the Events lesson.  
>       // For now it's enough to know that clicking the button will call the updatePresent function!

Reviewer 2: Comments should be inside {}

```suggestion
     { // We will dig into what's going on in this line in the Events lesson.   }
     { // For now it's enough to know that clicking the button will call the updatePresent function! }
```

      <button onClick={this.updatePresent}>
          Mark {this.state.present ? 'Absent' : 'Present'}
      </button>
</div>
    );
  }
}

export default Student;
```

> And if you want to play around with this live, [check out this codepen.](https://codepen.io/dhelmgren/pen/dypRybV) Don't worry about how the pieces we haven't talked about yet work, just try it out and confirm that we can change the name of the student.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And if you want to play around with this live, [check out this CodeSandBox.](https://codesandbox.io/s/youthful-wood-nskt5?file=/src/components/Student.js) Don't worry about how the pieces we haven't talked about yet work, just try it out and confirm that we can change the name of the student.
```

Also, take a look see in that constructor! We are using a special variable that `React.Component` gives us called `state`. Now, I know we just spent a long time saying that _any data_ that can change over time can be considered state. **That's still true!** React, however, is going to use this special object called `state` to know when it has to be reloaded. 

### !callout-info

## So Why Didn't We Learn Class Components Earlier?
React recently introduced a tool to the framework called 'hooks', which we'll be talking about soon. The introduction of hooks, in our opinion, make class components by in large _unnecessary_.  With hooks most applications can be written exclusively with functional components.  There are a few [specialized cases](https://reactjs.org/docs/error-boundaries.html) which require class components, but these scenarios are few and far between and may be replaced hook-based solutions at a later date.

### !end-callout

"Okay okay," I hear you saying, "But how are those fields getting changed!?"

> Without getting to into the weeds, there is a function call called `setState` -which we call on line 11 in the codepen- that belongs to `React.Component`. It takes an **object that updates all the fields of your state to their new values** as its parameter, and checks it against the current `state` object. If there are new or updated fields in that object, React updates the DOM to reflect those changes. If not, React just gives the component a high-five and lets them on their merry way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Without getting to into the weeds, there is a function call called `setState` -which we call on line 15 in the codesandbox- that belongs to `React.Component`. It takes an **object that updates all the fields of your state to their new values** as its parameter, and checks it against the current `state` object. If there are new or updated fields in that object, React updates the DOM to reflect those changes. If not, React just gives the component a high-five and lets them on their merry way.
```
